---
layout: page
title: Types
navigation: 3
---

## Types

For each space we have three parameters _types_, in all spaces, _geometric algebra_  elements can be represented divided in _basis_, _multivectors_ and _blades_. All operations and how each _type_ works will be explained later in this guide.

### Basis types

#### k-basis ```kbasis```

The ```kbasis``` _type_ is the first of all _types_, all of the other _types_ depend on this in some level.

This _type_ represents the basis elements of the _geometric algebra_ of Rᵏ, it depends of a k-dimensional logical array and a scale, generally

    kbasis(x::Vector{Bool}, a::Number)

will create a basis element from ```x``` and ```a```. For example,

    kbasis([false, true, false], 3.5)

will return the element ```3.5e2``` of the G₃ space.

In version 0.1.3 or above it's possible to create a ```kbasis``` using the base operator ```*``` between a ```Number``` and a ```Vector{Bool}```, as follows

    2.0*[false, true, true]

will return

    2.0e23

and, using the _layout_ elements, it can be used

    2.0*e23

to create the same element above.

#### p-basis ```pbasis```

To create an element of this _type_ is required, in addition to the logical array and scalar, one more logical element, that is,

    pbasis(x::Vector{Bool}, y::Bool, a::Number)

where the second parameter represents the basis element that squares to ```-1```. For example,

    pbasis([true, false, true, true], true, 1.0)

returns the element of G₄,₁

    1.0e13+-

where the basis element ```e3``` is replaced by ```e+``` with the same properties and is added the basis element ```e-``` that squares to ```-1```.


#### c-basis ```cbasis```

This _type_ instead of use ```e-``` as addition basis element, the elements ```e∞``` and ```e∘``` are used. To call an element of this _type_ it is necessary, besides the logical array and scale, two logical elements, as follows

    cbasis(x::Vector{Bool}, y::Bool, z::Bool, a::Number)

the second parameter represents the basis element ``e∞`` and the third represents `e∘`. As in the previous cases, instead of use the `Vector{Bool}` can be used the elements generated by the layout function, that is, if was called the layout(3) before, then

    cbasis(e12, true, false, 2.0)

will return

    2.0e12∞

Shortly `e∞ = e- + e+` and `e∘ = 0.5(e- - e+)` hence `e∞² = e∘² = 0` and `e∞e∘ = -1`.

### Multivector types

The _multivectors_ _types_ are composed of a vector of basis elements, each coordinate of the vector represents a portion of the sum that will generate the multivector itself.

#### k-multivector ``kmultvec``

This _type_ is composed of a `kbasis` vector and represents an arbitrary element of the _geometric algebra_ Gₖ.

    kmultvec(X::Vector{kbasis})

once created the `kmultvec` its coordinates elements will be arranged as a sum,

    kmultvec([kbasis(e1, 1.0), kbasis(id, 2.4), kbasis(e123, -1.0)])

will create the elmemnt

    1.0e1 + 2.4 + -1.0

it can be created by using the sum directly as follows

    kbasis(e1, 1.0) + kbasis(id, 2.4) + kbasis(e123, -1.0)

since the sum of `kbasis`, as will be explained later, generates an element of _type_ `kmultvec` in most cases.

#### p-multivector ``pmultvec``

The only difference here is that instead of being composed of a `kbasis` vector the `pmultvec` is composed of a vector `pbasis`,

    pmultvec(X::Vector{pbasis})

but, in the same way as the previous one, its coordinates elements  will be arranged as a sum.

#### c-multivector ``cmultvec``

Again, the difference remains in the vector _type_, which in this case will be a vector composed of `cbasis` elements,

    cmultvec(X::Vector{cbasis})

Other than that, everything follows in the same way.

### Blade _types_

These _types_ represent elements of the _geometric algebra_ called blades, for this we need a set 1.i. of 1-vectors.

#### k-Blades ``kblade``

The `kblade` _type_ represents a _blade_ in Gₖ space and is composed of a `kmultvec` vector

    kblade(A::Vector{kmultvec})

and, if the introduced vector is composed of l.i 1-vectors, this will generate a _blade_ formed by the _outer product_ of the coordinates of this vector. For example,

    kblade([kmultvec(kbasis(e1)), kmultvec(kbasis(e2)), kmultvec(kbasis(e3))])

generates the `kblade`

    (e1)∧(e2)∧(e3)


#### p-Blades ``pblade``

This _type_ represents a _blade_ in (k,1) _geometric algebra_ space the only difference between this _type_ and the previous one is that it is composed of a `pmultvec` vector.

    pblade(A::Vector{pmultvec})

however, as in the previous case, this will generate a _blade_ formed by the _outer product_ of the coordinates of the vector.

#### c-Blades ``cblade``

As for `kblade` and `pblade` this _type_ represents a _blade_ in (k+1,1) _geometric algebra_ space and the difference is in the _type_ that composes it, in this case `cmultvec`.

    cblade(A::Vector{cmultvec})

and as in previous cases, this will generate the _blade_ composed by the _outer product_ of its coordinates.

__All basis types can be called using the functions `kb` for `kbasis`, `pb` to `pbasis` and `cb` for `cbasis`__
